you seem to have conviction that there
is kind of off the books and in the
black science. This is a potential
avenue into accessing different forms of
energy at a huge scale that would
potentially provide an explanation for
the kind of technology and performance
and physics that UAP seem to exhibit.
[music]
It's pretty well documented that the the
Nazis had this attraction to the [music]
occult that led them to investigate all
sorts of odd things. It's really
fascinating to me that the Nazi
scientists were working on has some
superficial similarities to the kind of
hypotheses and declarations that Dr.
Salvatore Pas has put out that they used
sort of these rotating cylinders filled
with a form of mercury and of course
that's what Vidcowski says that the Nazi
bell program was doing that [music] was
producing these uh these levitation
effects.
I'm here with the esteemed Kirk
McConnell. Uh I'm so excited to have you
because I think you are as close to the
action as anybody when it comes to the
uh civilian representative world. You
were on the Senate Armed Services
Committee and you have spoken to uh
firsthand witnesses and uh a lot of
people where that probably give you
confidence that the whole UFO thing is
very real where people on the outside,
you know, just don't have kind of the
same data points. And so I I'm really
just honored to speak to you now and you
did that for multiple decades and uh you
know I think came about your
understanding of the UAP issue kind of
very very honestly and organically and
so uh yeah it's an honor to have you.
Thank you.
Well I very much appreciate it uh Jesse.
Um I would say that uh you're exactly
right. [clears throat] When I first
started into this uh you know uh looking
at this phenomenon,
it [clears throat] was uh shortly after
uh Leslie Kaine and Ralph Blumenthal's
um uh seminal New York Times article in
late 2017. And that's a starting place
for many people who prior to that were
not paying any attention to uh the UFO
UAP phenomenon. And that was true for me
and for several of my colleagues uh on
the Senate uh committee staffs, both the
Armed Services Committee and the
Intelligence Committee that started us
down this road. Yeah.
And so you're, you know, attached to
Senator Jack Reid, is that right? From
island.
I I've retired. I retired about a year
almost exactly a year ago.
But you have this kind of conventional
career in politics, right? And then like
what how do you get into UFOs, I guess,
is what I'm trying [laughter] to ask.
Well, as I say, it was that that New
York Times piece where they had some
very specific and what you would say
actionable uh information in there about
specific events uh that were ongoing at
the time. Some like the Nimttz case from
2004, which was historical. They
reported on the on the OAP ATIP program
um and so forth. So we had we had
strings to pull and uh and that's what
we started to do and um you know just uh
sort of following what we thought was
reasonable evidence uh we've been doing
it ever since. Um
so 2017 Leslie Kaine uh New York Times
journalist writes this kind of bombshell
article.
We've now found out that you know uh
Chris Mel and Lou Alzando had a big part
in the article. They came to her with
these three videos that formerly were
not acknowledged to be real by the
Pentagon Office of Naval Intelligence,
right?
Um, and uh, you know, it was the the the
Tic Tac, the Go Fast, and the Gimble
video. This this all comes out along
with the revelation that Harry Reid,
Senate Majority Leader uh on the
Democratic side and representative in in
Nevada, senator from Nevada, uh had
funded $22 million along with I think
Daniel Inway and Ted Stevens of Alaska
uh to actually study UFOs in an official
context. And so it's this kind of
bombshell article
and what happens next for you? So you
read the article, you say, "Oh, maybe
there's something here." And then what
happens?
Well, I can't uh recall the, you know,
specific one step at a time. Uh but
generally speaking, um we I had known
Chris Melon actually since the late
1980s when I first started in working in
the Senate. He was a staffer for uh at
the time Senator Bill Cohen from Maine
on the [clears throat] Senate
Intelligence Committee. So I'd known
Chris forever. I saw his name associated
with this and it was easy to uh
reconnect with with Chris and we met Lou
and we met Dr. Put off and Dr. Davis and
uh um uh we met the f other folks who
had been working on the um on the ranch
in uh in in in Utah and we met Brandon
Fugal,
Skinwalker Ranch,
Skinwalker Ranch. Uh we interviewed Navy
pilots uh a succession of them. We also
[clears throat] found Dave Fraver and
Alex Dietrich who had been pilots in the
Tic Tac episode back in 2004.
We met with uh
um we met with people from uh the under
secretary of defense for intelligence
and the navy and and so on. So we we
were uh we were covering a lot of ground
in a relatively short order and uh and
we and there was a lot of interest on
the part of members at the time in
understanding what the Navy was
experiencing off the east coast of the
United States. Now there is a big gap
between
okay we had you know an anomalous
sighting at Nimttz in 2004 we studied
this stuff on the order of $22 million
at Skinwalker Ranch from 2007 to 2012
and you know the government has some
knowledge of this stuff there's a g big
gap between that and uh the David Grush
claims that probably you know and this
is me kind of extrapolating but like
billions of dollars have been spent on
this issue.
uh that we have, you know, biologics and
non-human propulsed craft in our
possession at various kind of aerospace
warehouses. He's offered to give the
addresses for the warehouses. So,
there's a big delta between like, you
know, we have this kind of kind of
ephemeral interest and then like we have
this systematic study that's been going
on for many decades. Do you have
conviction in the latter and the kind of
the the David Grush account?
Yes, it was uh it was gradual in coming.
Uh but you know once uh once there was
uh what I would call you know staff
level and member level member-driven uh
investigation.
Um, we were beating the bushes and uh
hoping that other sources would come
forward and the folks that we were
dealing with already who had um obvious
uh and publicized
um experience and expertise uh going
back to the the uh OAP ATIP days that
Harry Reid was sponsoring. And uh this
led to other people uh you know coming
to uh Congress um and telling their
stories which were you know riveting and
uh and and credible. Um these are people
with uh high level clearances u uh uh
positions of authority in the
intelligence community and the defense
department and no uh no reason to be
fabricating things. Um and uh so you
know uh and you start reading and
reading and reading about this. There's
just as you know mountains of uh
information out there. Not all of it uh
true. Uh but uh you know it it's it's
not all false. That's for sure. And uh
so yeah, we ended [clears throat] up uh
uh coming progressively to the
conclusion that there's there's not just
smoke here. There's uh there's there's
fire.
And but you're one of the few people
because we've had some conversations
offline. you're one of the few people
that I think is fairly deep on the nuts
and bolts tracing the history of the
legacy UFO program as well as the
science. Um, and so you seem to have
conviction that there is kind of off the
books and in the black science uh that
you know the civilian world doesn't
really have access to, which if you were
to tell this to the average citizen in
the US, they'd be shocked. You know,
science is supposed to be sort of, you
know, open source. So obviously you have
nuclear trade secrets but nuclear
physics is open source and so if you
analogize that with the UAP issue you
know they're probably UAP trade secrets
that you know involve national security
but UAP physics so to speak should be
sort of open source uh to the extent we
understand how any of these things work
from you know an energy perspective
propulsion perspective uh do you think
we've made progress along those those
vectors and that that's hidden from the
public are you still lugging around one
of those bulky worn out wallets.
You know, I am
that your posture is not great due to
that wallet.
Yeah.
Are you aware of that?
I'm I'm currently now more self-aware of
my posture.
It might be time for an upgrade.
Oh, what do you suggest?
My personal suggestion is Ridge Wallet.
Look at this sleek design. Do you see
it?
Oh, wow. So sleek.
Yeah, pretty sleek.
Uh-huh. This thing holds up to 12 cards
plus cash.
All in a slim, durable, and stylish
package, too.
You took the words right out of my
mouth.
Ridge wallets feature RFID blocking
technology, so digital pickpockets won't
stand a chance. Plus, with their Air Tag
attachment, you'll never lose your
wallet again.
Where'd it go?
I lost my wallet. [laughter]
Uh, I was just checked my Air Tag. Easy.
Brilliant.
Yeah. I was recently in the Colorado
mountains and if I had lost my Ridge
wallet, I would have no problem tracking
it down, even in the Rockies. Right now,
Ridge is having their once a year
anniversary sale. So, get up to 40% off
at ridge.com/cosmic.
Just head to ridge.com/cosmic
to see their biggest sale of the year.
After you purchase, they will ask about
where you heard about them. Where did
they hear about Ridgewallet, Chris? Um,
they heard it here first on American
Alchemy.
Yeah.
Please support our show and tell them
our show sent you. Upgrade your wallet.
Thank me later. Um, it's a personal
opinion. Uh, but my um, you know, my uh,
tenative conclusion is that we have made
progress. Um I uh I can't um you know I
can't prove it and there's certainly a
lot of credible reporting on both sides
that the government has not made
progress. So I don't want to overstate
this. In fact, um you know, as you know,
uh we frequently hear the argument in
favor of disclosure being that the
government has failed to make progress
because of the severe levels of secrecy
imposed on the program and the
decentralized and stovepipe siloed
nature of the different activities that
are going on. the inability to attract
and work with the nation's uh premier uh
scientific minds. Uh the the lack of
coordination and integration across
these silos. You know, it's easy to
understand. It's plausible that those uh
factors could have [__] or inhibited
uh progress
uh u in a in a very significant way. uh
and the idea being that uh that
disclosure and bringing this under
appropriate uh congressional and for
that matter executive branch uh
oversight and management uh may um
significantly improve our ability to
understand
uh the the physics and to um and to
master it. Um
so um yeah I I uh I do personally uh
believe that we know an awful lot more
about this than uh than the government
has let on. Yeah.
Are there any specific kind of um modes
of exotic science. So like you hear
things like an extended version of
electronamics. So like from classical
electronamics to extended electronamics,
you hear things like the zero point has
energy and we can tap the zero point. Um
or you know I made a piece about the
mid-century inventor towns and brown
which my audience you know has heard
from me about this guy ad nauseium
because I think he made some interesting
updates in the world of kind of gravity
manipulation. Um have you looked into
any of those things specifically?
Yes. Um, uh, Jesse, I certainly have
tried to do that. I've tried to be a
genuine student of this issue and have
read as much as I as as I could as I
could find time. And I've certainly read
um read the biographies of Thomas Towns
and Brown. I've tried to read about
Nicola Tesla who I think also
[clears throat] uh uh with using
different terms but I believe that he
discovered uh what you're referring to
as extended electronamics
which is the modern term for for these
uh non-traditional non so-called herzian
transverse [clears throat]
electromagnetic waves and uh you know
Tesla certainly believed that he had
discovered um um I don't I don't know if
they should properly be called
electromagnetic waves because uh uh the
electric and magnetic fields are are
sort of suppressed in these uh uh
notions of scalar longitudinal uh waves
but uh for uh for convenience I'll just
refer to them as that uh Tesla certainly
he was dismayed when uh when Hertz came
out with his uh his his version of u
electromagnetic waves and said this is
the this is the answer.
That's really interesting. I didn't know
that that Tesla was dismayed of
he was at least from what I've read he
actually traveled uh to Europe
really
to meet with Herz to try to convince him
that he was wrong.
No way.
That's fascinating. So tell me if I'm
getting the history right. I think in
1865 Maxwell, James Clerk Maxwell,
British physicist, came up with his kind
of equations around electromagnetism,
but we hadn't actually um detected an
electromagnetic wave. And then Hinrich
Herz, I think 1887ish,
it's about that
about that time. And so Tesla would have
been very young but alive then
and active and and uh and had already uh
believed that he had uh accomplished a
lot and learned a lot about this
phenomenon.
And so he goes to meet with Herz.
Yeah.
Because he felt like his electromagnetic
models were limited.
That's right. and and that he did not
have it right and that you know Tesla
was trying to help him correct his uh
his his beliefs and uh by saying no look
this this is a different I have a
different kind of wave here and um and
you know I think we we call it Tesla
waves um over over the decades I mean
it's been well over 100 years whatund
140 years now something like that anyway
So I think uh uh Tesla Tesla after all
famously believed that he could transmit
electricity electricity wirelessly and
uh worked very hard on that for a big
chunk of his life
and frankly uh there's are accounts that
suggest that or not suggest that state
that that Tesla believed that he was
even able to achieve so-called
overunity. you know, he would send out
uh um electric electrical power uh
wirelessly and he believed that that uh
under certain conditions that he would
he would receive more energy than he
than he transmitted. And uh you know to
him this was uh this was the ether you
know um not exactly the ether of the of
the uh early and mid and uh 19th century
but nonetheless that's what as I recall
that's what he thought it was uh that he
was extracting energy. Today I think we
would say that he believed at least that
he was extracting energy from the
physical vacuum from the 0 point energy
field. Well, he definitely believed that
and I believe he dedicated a lot of his
the end of his life towards working
towards that end from an engineering
perspective and received funding from JP
Morgan to work on this stuff at Warden
Cliff and it was all about wireless
energy transmission
uh you know presumably through the
vacuum. Um so so yeah it's very
fascinating history. Then um he dies uh
I think in like the 30s or so.
No, I think it was uh 43. 43. There you
go. And he was living at the New Yorker
Hotel.
I forget the name of the hotel, but
I think it was the New Yorker Hotel. I
think he lived in um was it 327? He had
an obsession with three and he was it
was right next to Bryant Park and he was
in love with a pigeon at Brian Park.
Anyways, he dies and um his all of his
work gets confiscated by the FBI.
Yeah, I don't think all of it did. Uh
Jesse, my and look, I I don't I don't
claim or pretend to be uh a deep student
of uh Nicola Tesla's life. Um and it's
very complex in a lot of different
accounts, but um you know, he had a I
think a nephew um who was um uh who was
very interested in his papers. uh the
FBI uh various accounts say that yes,
the FBI came in and seized uh large
numbers of his files and classified
them. But there's also, you know,
stories about about Tesla also shopping
some of his uh work and beliefs with
Russian sources or Soviet sources with
uh and with the Germans.
I think he did do that and I think he
felt he sort of regretted it at the end
of his life.
I hope so. Yeah. Right. But so but
because he was he was Serbian. Um yeah.
So that's really interesting.
But that the two aren't mutually
exclusive, right? That we could have we
could have, you know, confiscated his
files and he also could have shared his
work with the Germans and the Soviets as
well.
That's right. Now I I I do want to
stress uh Jesse that my uh science uh
friends in the UAP field like Dr. or
Harold Putoff and uh and Eric Davis. I'm
sure if they're watching this, they're
they're uh they're very upset with me
cuz I don't think they believe that uh
that Tesla nor uh Thomas Towns and Brown
or others uh like them less wellknown to
be sure uh actually uh achieved the
things that we're alluding to. In other
words, sort of a uh access to this u
this vast uh energy in the 0 point uh
energy field in the so-called physical
vacuum. Uh they they uh they really
don't think that that has been achieved
and they doubt that it's possible. Um
and they're scientists and eminent ones
and I am not. I just uh like you uh read
these accounts and it's they're very
interesting to me. But Halpov also did a
podcast with the National Science
Foundation and I think it was
co-sponsored by NASA where he talks
about a model of extended electronamics.
Uh and he even talks about a specific
experiment involving a traditional
electromagnetic wave or RF signal
and then you take two Faraday chambers,
one to kill the E field, you know, the
electric field, one to kill the magnetic
field,
and you can communicate essentially kind
of faster than light and so via these
vector and scalar potentials. So,
you know, do you think that that has no
connection with the Tesla stuff or maybe
that's what he's saying? I don't know.
Well, I look, I'm I'm no scientist. Uh
uh but um I do think that this may be an
example that you're bringing up of uh of
like for lay people it would be like um
you know how many angels can dance on
the head of a pin uh you know a
distinction without a difference. It's
like okay yeah Howal believes in a
certain brand of extended electronamics
uh but not this part of it maybe um uh
whereas uh others um uh others uh
believe and you know for example scalar
longitudinal waves Hal and Eric might
say gee I don't believe that uh whereas
other scientists and in fact Leehively
who who is a dominant uh force and
figure in extended at electronamics
would say that uh that they are likely
real.
Have you Have you met Leehively? I
I have not met Lee Hively. I have
certainly met people that work with
directly with him.
So, this guy's known as kind of the
godfather of extended electronamics like
in the modern context. Um and I think
he's published with a guy two two other
guys uh Woodside and Low Bell
and he's based in Colorado Springs. I
was about to meet up with him once and
then uh I think he got very nervous or
something and and Dory got shut in my
face unfortunately. Yeah.
And so uh yeah I I I was very fascinated
to learn more about extended
electronamics cuz it's clearly it's this
thing that keeps coming up in UFO world
but it yeah I don't know it just uh you
know it's it's unclear how how real it
is and how it exactly works. like you
you get the sense that limited bits of
information are being let out maybe
strategically but that it's uh you know
still this somewhat opaque field. Yes.
And uh you know there's hints I know
this from other scientists who are
involved in the study of this uh of this
discipline that you know there's there's
possibility that it's not just u scalar
longitudinal waves that might enable the
transmission of uh wirelessly of
electrical power but that maybe these
waves
couple into other forms of energy in the
physical vacuum like gravity and
anti-gravity
um as as just one example. So this is a
potential avenue into accessing a uh you
know different forms of energy at a at a
huge scale that would would potentially
provide an explanation for the kind of
uh technology and performance and
physics uh that U.A. UAP uh seem to
exhibit. So that's that's the connection
where uh where you know people are
really hunting for how in the world
could could these objects operate in the
way that they do and this is potentially
an explanation for it. So it's
appealing. Um and you've also gone deep
on some pretty interesting kind of
exotic branches of science that deal
with the the Nazis as well and the kind
of World War II lore. Is that is that
right? Yeah. You know, once again, uh at
the risk of uh of um uh being ridiculed
uh by my uh some of my uh scientific uh
collaborators and friends. Um I've
certainly uh read all about u you know
the the the Nazi uh bell program. Um,
Igor Wikowski, the Polish journalist,
has written some books about this and
and Joseph Frell. Um, it's really
fascinating to me. uh and um and
certainly
uh you know aspects of what they at
least have reported that the uh Nazi
scientists were working on you know has
some superficial at least for me as a
layman superficial similarities to uh
the kind of uh hypotheses and and um
declarations that uh Dr. Salvatore Pas
from the Navy has has put out as as well
as others. Um so um so yeah, I'm I'm
interested in that. I think uh it's
incumbent on um on anybody who really is
digging deep into this issue to leave
these stones unturned is really not a
good idea. uh because this world is so
strange that we have to have an open
mind to lots of uh uh possibilities that
might seem ridiculous or fantastic. I
don't know how ridiculous it is because
you do have Igor Witkowski who's this
Polish journalist who's gone fairly deep
on this idea. We know this existed
commto
um you know Scot works uh which had two
locations in modern day Poland and
modern day Czechoslovakia. You you have
these underground tunnels
and you have you can see a test rig
there and the test rig looks like it
would work with some sort of bell-shaped
UFO.
Yeah.
And so I I find that you know absolutely
fascinating. There's a great British
journalist named Nick Cook who wrote a
book called The Hunt for Zero Point. And
he actually investigated all of this and
he you know he he would again say we
know commerce is real. you know, he's
seen the test rig, he's gone underground
and stuff and not a ton of evidence
there, but there's some cables that are
really interesting and intriguing. And
then it was rumored that Walter Gerlock,
uh, who was, you know, very interested
in gravity and anti-gravity was working
on this from like the physics
perspective. And then Ernest Growitz,
who was the an SS medical officer who
studied under was or reported to Joseph
Mangala, was on this. And so this was
this idea that this Nazi bell would
you'd create this high energy torsion
field around it. It would slow down the
inertial reference frame of what's
inside the bell. And so say everything
inside the bell is moving at one 1,000th
of the outside or whatever. You spend a
year inside this thing, you walk out,
you're a thousand years in the future.
It sounds so fantastical and kind of
insane, but from, you know,
theoretically from like a general
relativity perspective, it actually
doesn't break much. And you don't even
have to, you know, kind of combat uh
Stephen Hawkings chronological
conjecture because you're not talking
about backwards time travel. Anyways,
it's all super fascinating, but you've
uncovered some connections between the
Nazis and their interest in the occult
and esoteric
uh as to how they might have kind of
been clued into the architecture of this
DLA bell. You know that moment when you
slip into something and instantly wonder
how you ever lived without it? That's
exactly how I felt the first time I put
on Chubby's original stretch shorts. The
super elastic waistband feels like it
was custom made for comfort. And that 5
1/2 in inseam hits the perfect balance
between freedom and still being classy.
I've been rocking mine on hikes,
backyard barbecues, and of course
researching for this show. And they
never disappoint. Chubby's spring lineup
isn't just about shorts, though their
shorts are hard to beat. Their
breathable stretch performance polos
wick moisture and move with you all day.
While the classic line swim trunks
deliver quick dry four-way stretch in a
built-in liner for maximum comfort. And
if you want maximum versatility, the
original stretch shorts come in 4 in, 5
1/2 in, and 7 in inseams, all in bold
prints that scream spring. Whether
you're getting dressed for your workday,
a workout, or a weekend getaway,
Chubbies has you covered. For a limited
time, Chubbies is giving our viewers 20%
off your order with our code Jesse at
chubbieshorts.com.
That's code jesse. Jes sysshorts.com.
Please support our show and tell them we
sent you. Don't blend in with the crowd.
Stand out with Chubbies. Well, uh, f
first, uh, uh, what I would say, Jesse,
is that, um, I, uh, I, I, I, I, I, I, I,
I, I, I, I I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I,
I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I
I I don't dispute that what Wowski and
Frell report is is for the most part,
you know, correct. The question is, how
effective were these programs, the
Nazis? Did they did they really succeed
at what they were aiming at? Um, but you
know, uh, when you talk about things
that I've uncovered, it's others have
uncovered it. I I've just happened to
have read about it. But, but certainly I
think it's pretty well documented that
the the Nazis had this uh had this um,
attraction to the occult uh, that led
them to investigate all sorts of uh, of
uh, odd things, mystical things even.
And I think it was Whitowski who um who
uh described their expeditions to the
Himalayas in search of these Aryan myths
um and trying to chase those down. And
of course, one of the interesting uh
Himalayan myths that's pertinent to this
issue or the I hope I'm pronouncing this
right. If not, I hope experts will
forgive me. But the vim vimeina uh
phenomena. And what's interesting is
that there are suggestions in those
Vimina traditions that uh that these
gods who flew around in these airships
uh which by the way could fly the way
UAP do allegedly uh that they used um uh
sort of these rotating um uh uh
cylinders filled with a with a form of
mercury. And of course that's what
Vidcowski uh says that the Nazi bell
program was doing. It was a it was a red
mercury compound in these cylinders,
these counterrotating cylinders that was
producing these uh these levitation
effects. So it's a very interesting uh
uh correlation. Maybe the Nazis were
convinced that these uh these Himalayan
traditions were uh were on to something
uh there. Um, and of course uh for
students of the history of the Cold War
at the tail end of the uh of the Cold
War and into the '9s uh coming out of
the former Soviet Union were all these
stories about this substance called red
mercury that was uh alleged to have
these amazing properties and that it was
being sold on the black market and so
on. And u you know most of the
intelligence community I think who
studied this uh concluded that it was a
hoax that it was fraudulent. Um but uh
there you have it. You know there was a
black market in red mercury. So this
this whole thing pops up again in in
much more uh modern times. So it's
interesting. I like I like uh uh leaving
no stone unturned and trying to connect
dots and see if there's any basis for
it. It's fascinating. You also we we
just got uh breakfast and you were
telling me about some very interesting
overlaps between American investigations
into foo fighters. Fu fighters are these
seemingly controlled ball lightning kind
of plasma orb thingies that uh Allied
fighter pilots would often see in Nazi
German specifically in Bavaria from 1942
to 1945. Uh you uncovered some
connections around American
investigations
into those and then what ended up in
this sort of UFO cover up with the
Robertson panel of 1952 which created
Blue Book.
Well, again, Jesse, I certainly didn't
uh didn't uncover this. It's like uh but
it's out there uh in the in the history
of the investigations of the Foo Fighter
phenomenon both in in the European uh
theater as well as in the uh in the uh
in the Far East in the U uh Pacific
theater. Um, and indeed, you know, you
read the accounts of the Foo Fighter
phenomenon and they're they read almost
exactly like uh postworld war II and up
to the present time accounts of UAP. Uh,
so I I'm pretty confident that we're
dealing with the same phenomenon. And
indeed uh what what's what's really
important about the foo fighter
phenomenon is you know if you think back
on the context um the allies were
paranoid about German
uh uh innovation and uh and you know the
chance that they were working on some
very exotic technologies that would
really really disadvantage the allied
forces. And when the foo fighter
phenomenon was was becoming, you know,
uh noticed and a thing, uh I think it's
perfectly clear that the allies were
intelligence services and operational
commanders were really worried. What the
hell is this? And does it represent some
German secret uh exotic weapons
technology?
And uh it was studied and I think it was
studied pretty carefully. And one of the
people that was uh assigned to conduct
that study happened to be Dr. Howard
Robertson from Caltech
uh who 7 years after the war uh was
chosen, I'm sure not coincidentally, to
lead up the CIA's infamous Robertson
panel. But another uh uh historical
figure that was uh involved in the Foo
Fighter investigations with Robertson is
the future Nobelist uh Luis Alvarez. um
a tremendous uhly accomplished uh
physicist and uh uh the both of them I
mean Alvarez was also on the Robertson
panel
right and of course the Robertson panel
for any of your uh viewers and listeners
who are not familiar um in uh 1952 after
the uh the so-called UFO um um I I
forget what they call it flyover fly
flyovers in Washington sort of the
headlines on the newspapers were, you
know, saucers on the White House lawn.
Exactly. This big, it was mass sightings
in in July, specifically July 19th and
20th and 26th and 27th, 1952.
That's right. So, in the wake of that,
uh, the Robertson panel made these
recommendations uh in secret. One
recommendation was to uh that the US
government needed to be out debunking uh
the existence or you know of any reality
of about these uh uh UFO phenomena. But
then their their second recommendation
which is not always uh noted uh in the
accounts of it is that uh uh they they
they they strongly recommended that the
government figure out how to detect and
track these uh these anomalous UFO
types of phenomenon in order they said
to differentiate between you know a real
Russian Soviet bomber coming over the
North Pole and uh versus some UFO,
right? So, this was a practical matter
as they put it. But, uh but nonetheless,
it's interesting that they really
recommended that the government figure
out how to detect and track and
differentiate these things from real uh
tangible
um uh uh fighters and and bombers. Um
so, yeah. So I guess what I'm trying to
say is that and this is pertinent to
your point is that uh we started in
World War II to really
uh think about and worry about UFOs. We
just called them foo fighters, right?
And I think that this is uh this is an
important lesson
uh when contemplating whether the United
States government ever took and has ever
taken UFOs seriously. You bet your ass
they they have. Oh yeah. Well, nobody
can dispute that those that HP
Robertson, who was a Caltech physicist,
and Luis Walter Alvarez, went out there
and studied this stuff and then sat on
the Robertson panel, which sort of, you
know, ended up determining UFO secrecy
or the government's orientation towards
it, at least public facing with Blue
Book for the next two decades. So, and
there's there's also another, you know,
anecdote from that time, 1946 and 7,
there were these ghost rockets showing
up in Sweden. They looked like these
modified V2s. you had over a thousand
sightings of these. And so again, not
disputed that Eisenhower sent uh General
James Doolittle out to investigate that.
And then who knows if this is
correlated, but James Dittle comes back
and I believe he becomes the chair of
Naka uh you know and um you know uh
looks into like kind of exotic
propulsion modalities in in the US after
that. And so I do think you have to ask
your question if you're you have to ask
ask the question if you're a complete
skeptic. You want to write off the whole
UFO thing. Where did those inquiries go?
Cuz I I believe that you know we've made
progress since then. Um so yeah, I think
it's the whole thing is so fascinating.
So let's shift gears a little bit. Um,
Kirk, have you spoken to anybody um in a
classified setting or not who has seen
craft firsthand?
You mean seen recovered craft recovered
craft
craft andor uh stuff that we may have
built?
Yeah.
Um yes. Uh uh these are people who uh
found their way one way or another to us
on Capitol Hill and met with uh with
senators and who made precisely those
kinds of claims.
When you say stuff that we could have
built, you don't mean a B2 or F-17 or
F35 going down, right? Uh the
allegations are that we have uh reverse
engineer we have reverse engineered uh
something that that at least uh has some
of the capabilities that uh that UFOs
and UAP have uh have reportedly
displayed. At that point that's such a
bold claim. How do you follow up and try
to get like a smoking gun that this is
not of human origin and that this isn't
some super sophisticated tech protection
program that's trying to sigh off our
civilian government, which again may be
primmaaccia absurd, but like
extraordinary claims do require
extraordinary evidence.
Um I'm not fond of that uh of that
assertion by the way.
I agree. Well, [laughter] I think in the
UFO stuff, we have extra we have an
abundance of evidence and we need
extraordinary investigation and and we,
you know, we're just sort of like
mentally like, you know, not in the
right our priors don't allow us to
actually accept that this is real and we
don't do the proper investigating. But
anyways,
well, Jesse, I would say first of all
that you're you know, your question is
how do you how do how does one go about
um you know, proving this? Yeah. and and
uh I I will um I will take that with
respect to my personal uh uh situation
as a as a staff [snorts] member for a
committee in Congress
uh that we had very limited ability to
uh to determine the the veracity of
these of these reports. Uh first of all
uh the folks who who were you know
telling this uh making these claims uh
were not willing to be uh to have to
come out in public uh for the most part.
Dave Grush is an is an exception but
Dave doesn't claim absolute direct you
know firsthand uh firsthand knowledge.
So, you know, people did not want to
they were afraid to uh to uh come
forward publicly. But in addition, you
know, if they the more specifics they
gave you, the more they were worried
about about them being identified be by
the by u you know the uh security
services being able to tell well
congress is saying that somebody told
them this well this there's a small
number of people that knew that right
so uh so uh it's not that we had so much
specific actionable
information that uh that we were able to
act on. But but uh more fundamentally um
you know for Congress to undertake the
kind of investigation
that would be necessary to pry through
the kinds of um security structures
that have allegedly been built around
this topic. you know, uh that's a big
lift for uh for for for elected members
of Congress like uh you know uh
uh investigations you know like the uh
you know church uh uh Pike postwatergate
investigations or Iran Contra
um uh these members have to be pretty
confident that there are really
important, no kidding, uh reality uh
behind behind uh the issues, right? So,
you kick off a no holdsb barred
investigation, you better be damn sure
that that there's a uh that there's a a
prize there uh or, you know, something
that's that's for sure going to be
discovered and revealed. And I I don't
think that Congress feels that
collectively that they're at that point
yet. Um I think uh this is why you
consistently hear the the appeal for
more uh for more people with direct
sources uh to come forward. um you know,
ideally in public um but at least in
private um
uh come come to Congress and uh and and
and tell your story. Do these people are
you sussing them out? Do they seem
genuinely afraid for their lives? Do
they seem like these kind of slick
operators where it's like they could
pull the wool over your eyes or like
what what how do they pattern match? Cuz
I imagine even for your own you're a
curious human being. You have to be
thinking, "This person is telling me
they're rec recovering alien
extraterrestrial craft. I want to know
if this is true for not only for
humanity and for the US, but like for
myself." And so, how are you how are you
trying to sus that out? Today, I want to
share something that's become a gamecher
for me personally. Qualia senolytic.
Have you ever heard about senolytics?
It's a revolutionary class of
ingredients that researchers discovered
less than a decade ago and they're
already being hailed as one of the
biggest breakthroughs in promoting
healthy aging. This is where
Qualioenolytic shines. As we age, our
bodies accumulate what scientists call
scesscent cells, also known as zombie
cells. These cells just sit there
hogging resources and dragging down your
energy, recovery, and even mental
clarity. Think of it like pruning a
plant. You've got to remove the dead
leaves to get the rest to thrive. Since
I started taking Qualiaenolytic, I felt
a huge boost in energy and productivity.
I'm sharper, more focused, and genuinely
feel like I've rolled the clock back.
And here's the kicker. You only need to
take it 2 days a month. This
sciencebacked formula is non-GMO, vegan,
and designed to work synergistically to
help your body shed those zombie cells.
And with a 100-day money back guarantee,
there's zero risk in trying it out for
yourself. So resist aging at the
cellular level and try Qualia Senolytic.
Go to qualia.com/jesse
for up to 50% off and use code jesse at
checkout for an additional 15% off. For
your convenience, Qualius Analytic is
also available at select GNC locations
near you. That's qu a l i
alife.com/jesse
for an extra 15% off your purchase.
Thanks so much to Qualia for sponsoring
today's episode. Well, I I would say uh
Jesse that uh that
my
clear sense is that I and most if not
all of the colleagues, staff colleagues
who were involved and uh and certainly
some of the key uh senators who were
involved
um found these individuals to be
credible.
Um and
uh and you know sane and uh and to your
question about did they were were they
believable when they would say when they
would express concerns for their own
safety and that of their families and of
their careers. Uh I would say that's
very definitely uh was um was credible.
I mean I what I mean by that is we
believed them that they felt that way.
Um and uh it was almost in some cases
palpable. I can recall um an instance
where one uh source uh when when when
initiating
uh you know uh an explanation of what
they uh of what they knew uh was visibly
shaking. I mean physically uh so
stressed uh
about it. So, so yeah, I think I don't
think that these folks are are making it
up. Um, they uh they feel that there's
uh there are grave risks and you know,
and these are people that have not gone
public. They're not the whistleblowers
the public knows.
Well, that's that's right. Uh I don't
want to uh give the wrong impression.
It's not like there's hordes of these
people that or dozens even, but there's
a there's a handful. Yep. Um and and and
um and and they are very concerned.
They don't feel safe to come out fully
or
Yes, that's right. Um uh um I it's it's
like they have the sort of the fear of
God uh in them. Um about the
consequences. Are are you aware of
people who've died or faced retribution
around coming out or
um Well, I don't think you need to look
any further than the case of Dave
Garage. Um I mean, he's not even a uh
you know, what you'd call a firsthand
witness uh or source. Um but, uh you
know, Dave uh Dave had a hard go of it
and some of the the things that have
happened to him are not uh even in the
public domain. Yeah, I believe and um
and so um yeah uh I I think there's real
um there's real risk. I mean this is not
uh to come out is is almost clearly not
career enhancing uh no to to be
sarcastic uh about it.
Um and I would say look you know Lou
Alzando is you know had to go find
another career path you know uh as has
Dave. Um
I think Lou's also talked about being on
a hit list.
Yeah, they have uh they they have they
believe that they uh that that has that
that has happened. Um
so um so uh I can't uh I can't
positively assert that uh that that uh
that this is these things are true. Um
but neither can I uh can I dismiss him.
Have you spoken to anybody who claims to
have seen biologics?
Um, let me think about that one. Um, if
I personally know
people, I
think the answer to that is no. Um, I
don't think that I personally know
someone who has seen who claims to have
seen uh biologic.
How in this how in your assessment is
the program run? I think what I struggle
with personally as do a lot of other
people uh is is like there's clearly no
chain clear central chain of command or
if there is it's extremely well hidden
and it seems like these sort of uh
middle management cutouts in various
organizations where like leadership in
those specific organizations are half
aware that these things even exist and
money is being funneled from other kind
of private you know interest or
whatever. The whole thing seems insane.
Like I've I've personally heard of
extremely high ranking members of
government where they're not, you know,
clued in. They're not briefed to this
stuff and then their deputies are. And
you hear something like that and you're
like, how does that even work? Like
what? That makes no sense on some level.
Maybe it does in this sort of, you know,
super swampy, you know, bureaucratic
mess that is Washington. But yeah, how
do you how do you make sense of it? Uh
Jesse, the short answer is I can't make
sense of it. I I uh what the way you've
characterized uh what is out there in
terms of what people
um have people have said, you know,
confidentially um and otherwise is is
right. uh and I think uh based upon the
uh the amount of information that I have
uh I don't think it's possible to to uh
to to actually uh determine with
confidence uh uh what what the
management structure if if one exists
what it looks like. Does it make any
sense at all? Is it uh is it sort of
this uh this crazy uh spaghetti uh that
that you've kind of described and how
could that possibly be true? Um I think
uh I think this is uh the answers to
this uh uh conundrum uh will have to
await you know some some genuine
disclosure. Trump has talked a lot about
other disclosures. all uh Jeffrey
Epstein, JFK,
911, things of that nature. You have the
Department of Government Efficiency sort
of running, you know, rough shod through
a lot of these sort of bloated, you
know, agencies. Uh do you think we have
any disclosures on the UAP front and
maybe even, you know, beyond that, do we
get disclosures about like is is any of
Tesla's work still, you know,
classified? is I'm pretty sure Thomas
Towns and Brown's work is still
classified by the Navy. So, do we get
scientific disclosures or disclosures
around UAP UFO? I really have no idea.
Of course, the um uh there's there's
been um a lot of observers of the of the
UAP issue who have uh have taken heart
from the public positions of a a decent
number of advi uh adviserss and now
cabinet members uh and even you know uh
the national security adviser uh saying
positive things about UAP transparency
and uh and there was a lot of optimism
that uh we we will see uh um uh a new
level of disclosure and transparency
from this administration. Uh so far uh I
don't think we've uh we've we've seen
uh you know significant indications that
that's going to happen. Uh, frankly, I
think the first uh, you know, official
act that the Trump administration took
in dismissing what was going on up in
uh, New Jersey, for example, that this
was an FAA regulated uh, set of set of
events. Um, it it does not bode well. Um
I uh and furthermore, I think that
there's some uh you know developing
disappointment that whenever uh the
Trump administration
[clears throat] uh lists its uh its
objectives with regard to uh revealing u
u you know uh really significant uh
classified information about the JFK
assassination, the RFK assassination,
Martin Luther King [clears throat] um
and Jeffrey Epstein and so on. You know,
they list all those and then it
sometimes seems like the UFO issue uh is
either mentioned sort of in passing at
the end or not mentioned at all. Uh so
uh we'll have to obviously wait and see
what happens. Um, but uh uh I think that
there's uh reasons to be concerned that
we might not get uh the tr the uh
disclosure that people had hoped for.
How big was the Senate Armed Services
Committee when you were on it? How many
people?
You mean how many members? How many?
Roughly two dozen. A little a little
more. I think uh they've actually
expanded in this current session again
up to 27 members.
Okay. So what Yeah. What percentage of
those 24 to 27 members believe that UFOs
are real and being systematically looked
into in a government context?
Jesse, I could not possibly speculate on
that. And uh and um you know uh if if if
I did know, I it's not something that I
would want to reveal. This is uh
Were you a total lone wolf, I guess, is
what I'm trying to say. Were you
completely isolated in believing this or
um No, there were certainly uh there
were certainly some members who by their
actions um uh clearly conveyed that they
were um uh interested in this topic and
believed that there was uh you know a
reason to push the government to um um
to reveal more uh of of what uh they
believe the government knows about this
topic. Um, you know, um, uh, is is every
member of the Senate Armed Services
Committee or the Senate Intelligence
Committee, um, you know, a believer? Uh,
I would say, uh, I really have no idea.
Um, was there interest in this? Uh,
yeah. And I think uh I think there's um
you know there's there's sort of
gradations here because you know they're
all concerned uh everyone in national
security is concerned about these uh
these uh overflights of sensitive
sensitive facilities. Uh what what's
really hard to figure out is how much of
that is like uh uh you know hobby shop
drones. Uh how much of that is uh is
potentially you know some adversary uh
but still
um uh far from anomalous. you know, sort
of conventional types of drone
technologies versus what is uh perhaps
anomalous uh genuinely and what might be
uh exotic technology of an adversary or
uh or or something that's genuinely uh
non-human intelligence uh and so forth.
Um, I think everyone is interested in
the security of our sensitive facilities
and uh and want uh the government to
figure out what the hell's going on at
places like uh Langley Air Force Base
and our air bases in the UK and uh over
sensitive facilities in New Jersey or
wherever they may be. You hear things uh
reportedly from David Grush like Dick
Cheney is was a gatekeeper for the
legacy UFO efforts. I mean on the one
hand it would kind of make sense because
he seems to have been you know if there
was anybody who was kind of running you
know the show behind George W. Bush it
was probably Dick Cheney. And so that
kind of comports with our understanding
of this whole issue of like, you know,
it's almost like Lord of the Rings, if
you have the the ring or something, you
know, that confers some sort of weird
power. Um, and then on the other hand,
it's just so absurd. I mean, Dick Cheney
is very old, but he's still alive and
he's a very high-profile person. So,
like,
a part of me is just like, I mean, just
ask the guy. Like, do you do you uh do
do you think that Dick Cheney had any
involvement with UFOs?
Well, uh there's a difference here
between what I think, you know, there's
evidence for and what I personally u uh
kind of believe. Um what I would say is
uh that we've certainly heard the same
accounts that uh that you're referring
to that uh and the p you know the the
the the sequence goes like this that uh
George HW Bush as the director of CIA
uh was read in allegedly to this uh
legacy so-called legacy program and that
um and that he passed on what he knew
about that to his son George W. Um and
that uh and it is it is reported by some
that the George W. the Bush
administration
uh did uh you know really take a more
hands-on approach to the UFO UAP issue
and uh it has been reported by some that
yes uh Dick Cheney as vice president was
the was in was sort of in charge of that
uh and that uh his national security
staff and the national security council
staff uh were involved uh how many of
them I've never heard a report claiming,
you know, um uh uh claiming any
knowledge about how extensive
the staff uh was involved in that, but
certainly we've heard those uh those
reports. Yeah. Um but I just can't tell
you uh for sure that that uh that that
happened. [clears throat] Now, you know,
there was a report that um that the
National Security Council under uh
George W. Bush did commission a study of
whether the time was had come for quote
disclosure and that they uh they they
studied the matter. They they uh let out
a contract and it was uh you know there
was an assessment done and then it was
debated and uh the conclusion that was
reached was that no the time was not
right yet. It would uh it would be still
uh uh
catastrophic.
Yeah. Well catastrophic. You know there
would be the the consequences the
negative consequences would would
outweigh the benefits. Let's put it that
way at a minimum. Um and uh this was
this story was reported to Sean
Kirkpatre at Arrow and we subsequently
heard from uh Shawn uh directly that
that he had um uh looked into this or
had somebody look into it and that
indeed there there had been a contract
for such a study and the uh the basis of
the study was um
uh was suppose the United States
government had in its possession and I
forget the number you know six or 12
uh recovered um extraterrestrial craft
and should the United States government
disclose this fact? Okay. Um what was
said to us uh from Sean Kirkpatre is
that uh there was such a study but it
was purely an academic exercise that
allegedly
um there was just um you know an entity
in the defense department uh I think it
was probably the office of net
assessment which is the the futuristic
um uh uh element within the within the
department that is supposed to look at
uh uh strange what if kinds of scenarios
that they had decided to just for the
heck of it uh postulate what if we had a
bunch of crashed UFOs uh should we
reveal it or not I think that kind of
strange credul that somebody in
why would you ever simulate something
that if you're convinced isn't real it's
so absurd why would in the hypothetical
scenario that we had unicorns in our
possession we have to figure out a plan
I mean that's crazy also Hal Putoff is
on record saying he consulted for this
net assessment. National security
adviser Steven Hadley was involved and
that they you know came to the
conclusion that you mentioned which is
that the the uh you know costs
outweighed the benefits as far as
disclosure went. So one of them is lying
and I don't think it's Hal put off.
Yeah, I think Hal is a pretty straight
shooter. Um and uh that's why when you
you asked the question I said personally
I tend to believe that this uh took
place the way it was charact has been
characterized by by how um yeah and so
yeah so Kirk Patrick
you know is this very interesting
character where you I've heard all these
stories of people who've had experiences
in the government like you have this
great book by Robert Hastings called
UFOs and nukes where you have you know
overund 60 ICBM security personnel,
radar operators, employees at nuclear
bases experiencing tic tac, saucers, all
sorts of things showing up at, you know,
nuclear sites, tampering with the comms,
shutting down missile silos. In certain
cases, the employees board crafts and
get, you know, they wake up miles away.
It's fascinating stuff. And he and many
of the witnesses say that, you know,
testimonies to Kirk Patrick, the guy's
not taking notes. Mhm.
He's not he's literally just listening
to this these sacred very important
stories that are dear and that are very
personal to these people that you know
profound and then sort of there's just
no there's never any follow-up. Yeah.
And so I guess my question is we know
that there is a um long-standing
tradition in government of obfiscation
around the UFO topic. You had Edward
Condan was, you know, created the Condan
Committee and all the people on the
Condan Committee were like, "This is a
bad faith effort and we didn't actually,
you know, like anything that even made
it into study was like already ruled out
as like a, you know, hoax or a bad
case." You have letters now between
Condan and Air Force Colonel Robert
Hipler where Hitler is saying, "We want
this to be shown as a waste of money."
And Condan kind of implicitly complying
with that.
Absolutely. [clears throat] I don't
think implicitly. I think
explicitly. And Condan also is a
longtime associate of Robert Robert
Oppenheimer's and goes way back when it
comes to atomic secrecy. In fact, if you
believe David Grush, which I do, the
Atomic Energy Commission, which created
UFO secrecy in 1954, the precursor to
that was the McMahon Secrecy Act of 46,
which Condan wrote. So, the person
writing UFO secrecy is then going on to
debunk it. So, the whole thing's so
ridiculous. Is Kirk Patrick a modern
version of that?
Well, um, look, I don't like to cast
dispersions, uh, unnecessarily, for
sure. And I've known Sean actually for
20 years, uh, and I had worked with him,
uh, a good bit.
Wow. You've known that for two for 20
years.
I I have known known Sean for a long
time. I knew him from when he was a
program manager at the National
Reconnaissance Office. Um and
subsequently uh we stayed in touch
through his uh progress his career pro
progression within the uh the defense
intelligence community and principally
DIA. Um and uh yeah you know uh in fact
when we first started on the Senate
Armed Services Committee to and Senate
Intelligence Committee
to investigate uh this matter after the
New York Times article in 2017.
Um, I involved Sean in in uh in our
work. Uh, I invited him with some
regularity to sit in on our interviews
of uh of Navy pilots and and some of the
scientific figures. I mean, I think
there was a there was a picture uh
posted online uh perhaps by Brandon
Fugal, the owner of Skinwalker Ranch,
um uh of of Fugle's team briefing in the
in an armed services committee hearing
room.
And there's a picture of Shawn sitting
sitting next to us. Well, I had invited
Shawn to that meeting. Uh so uh but you
know I I do feel that uh that Shawn
uh that Shawn ended up uh taking a very
traditional uh DoD line on on the UAP
issue.
Do you think that was intellectually
genuine or disingenuous?
Uh look, I I I don't I don't know. Um I
I personally feel that there was a point
at the beginning of his uh service as
the director of Arrow that Shawn uh was
uh was uh committed to um you know
calling it as he as he saw it. Um I do
feel like there might have been then
some change. Uh and you know there's
speculation that he was uh read into the
legacy program and wow
and told uh you know in no uncertain
terms that you know uh you need to uh
sustain the the the sort of the party
line that's been in existence for so
long. But look I have no idea if
actually happened or
didn't he work at Oakidge National Labs
too? So
well let's see. Uh Sean uh I don't know
like before he took the arrow job
what association if any he had with
Oakidge but um he did uh start working
with Oakidge uh you know he created um
he created an advisory group I can't
remember what it was called officially
but I think that group still exists and
the contract for that for the formation
of that group to advise him at Arrow.
The contract was let through Oakidge and
then when Shawn retired from the
government. Um he is working with and
for Oakidge under contract now.
Yeah.
Seems like a potential conflict of
interest. If you believe that UFO
secrecy has anything to do with atomic
secrecy, which I'm assuming you do. I
believe that. Yeah,
that seems like an issue possibly that
there's financial outflows from the
organization that you're supposed to be
investigating.
Yeah, conflicts of interest are
allegations are easy to make uh but not
so easy to sort out. But uh but it is uh
it is it is certainly worth taking note
of uh if if if uh if nothing else. I
just I just don't see you know I've
spoken to a lot of the same people as
him and like these people are good
people. They're honest. Like this guy
Mario Woods, 1977 Ellsworth Air Force
Base in South Dakota. Maybe you are
familiar with his case.
I don't think I am.
Well, he's, you know, a lot of these guy
he was, you know, uh, woke up 9 miles
away
near Lake New.
This is in Robert Hastings book.
Robert Hastings book. And um, you know,
he had this just profound experience and
then he maintained his queue clearance
for 20 years after that. And if you
think this guy is having an anomalous
incident that you've never heard about
before, why wouldn't you strip him of
his Q clearance if you hadn't had heard
it a million times? Why wouldn't you
strip him of his Q clearance if you've,
you know, uh, this is the just a
oneofone case and the guy's claiming
something that ostensibly seems crazy?
And then he describes this whole
protocol of them checking his teeth and
doing medical stuff and it's like it was
as if
they had seen this a million times
before. Yeah.
And you have to think of 170 of these
people, which is a large number, have
come out in the last 70 years, it's
probably in the thousands as far as
people who have experienced this because
you're talking about a culture of, you
know, insane secrecy, talking about cold
war secrecy era stuff. Um, and then
people with Q clearances who don't get
into this line of work because they're
histrionic. And so you I don't know, you
talk to a lot of these guys, Bob Jacobs,
you know, many of the others, and
they're just not liars. And if you're
telling me that the guy, you know, Kirk
Patrick's sitting ac
my my whole the whole computer going on
in my brain is malfunctioning and like,
you know, I need to be taken off air
or like there's something weird going on
there.
I don't disagree at all. And with regard
to the notes part, you know, first of
all, it was objectionable to me
personally that the AROW office didn't
like videotape and and record at least
record everything that was said, but
they didn't operate that way. I my
understanding is they did take notes. I
don't I'm not saying that Sean Kirkpatre
himself took notes, but but my
understanding was that that at least in
all the episodes that I've heard about,
the interviews that I've heard about,
there was somebody at least taking
notes.
Um uh but, you know, that seems
insufficient to me. Uh you need to hear,
you know, to record verbatim what was
said. Furthermore, as you noted,
uh these things would then just go into
a black hole. the the record of these
interviews. Um I mean I think uh Hal
Putoff and Eric Davis to this day have
never been shown the notes from their
meetings with Arrow. Uh for them to
review and say yes this is this is
accurate. This is what I said and this
is what happened. Uh it's it's just uh
they never heard from him again.
And and in certain cases, you know,
Hastings has mentioned that the evidence
is gets erased or something. So they'll
say, you've heard that too.
I have heard that.
So it's like the tapes are here of this
UFO thing and then the tapes are gone
right after they tell them that.
Oh yeah, I thought you meant like uh
like their their interview uh the
interview notes or you know what was
what was provided to Arrow.
No, I hear that the primary material in
certain cases they'll say the location
and then there's a weird breakin or
something after. Well, I don't know, but
uh but I know there was an episode uh
like this with Lou Alzando where he told
them of a particular location, an
office, a safe a safe drawer, and the uh
only to be told that when uh when they
opened it up, there was nothing there.
Yeah.
So, these are worome
reports for sure. Um, so but but Jesse,
you know, you you you uh you mentioned
uh Robert Hastings and all of these uh
events that happened at nuclear weapons
sites.
Um you know, this is this is so
important to to this question about does
the government take this matter
seriously? And again, you know, we
started out talking about the Foo
Fighter experience in World War II, but
you know, after the war, as soon as uh
as soon as the, you know, the uh the
United States started building
substantial nuclear forces and
facilities,
you know, the the the uh there's there's
just this constant visitation
and monitor ing by uh at the least by
UAP. Um when you get into the 1960s,
there are these amazing um uh events
that happen. You you mentioned Robert
Jacobs uh the big su event in 1964.
Uh but you know, Dr. Harold Mongrren has
uh alerted the world as it were to to
events that took place in 1962.
uh in fact some of them at the height of
the Cuban missile crisis. Uh this has
been uh documented by I think you as
well as uh Jeff Krookshank from from
Australia and and certainly a lot of
Reddit uh um u uh users. Um you know uh
Harold Mongrren before he passed away
and and what a a tragic loss I might
add. He was such a uh an incredible uh
you know statesman uh diplomat uh
defense thinker uh economist uh and so
forth. Uh but you know going back to
1962 he was the youngest of Magnamera's
whiz kids. Um he was involved in the
day-to-day uh deliberations about what
to do uh when the Cuban missile crisis
happened.
Um after the Cuban missile crisis uh was
over, he was commissioned by Magnamera
to lead a study of the potential for
missile defenses to contribute to
presidential options when uh a future
Cuban missile crisis uh might take
place. And uh and as uh no sooner had uh
had uh Harold Mongrren been given that
assignment, he was contacted by uh by a
famous CIA uh officer, Richard Bissell,
number two in the CIA deputy director.
That's right. And uh Bissell uh met with
Mongrren and told him he said look
you've been given this assignment to
develop um u missile defense options and
to you know explore the potential for
missile defenses to contribute to
deterrence and uh you need to know that
in uh the test that happened in October
26th 1962 at the height of the Cuban
missile crisis there was a test of a
special warhead designed to produce
enhanced X-ray output uh called the XW51
uh X1 or something like that. It was
amazing. Mongrren at 89 years old
rattled off the name of that warhead uh
from memory.
Um and uh
he's he's a genius.
He is uh and it was um okay. So, so
taking you back specifically to that
event, um we set off that warhead. It
was the Bluegill triple prime uh
atmospheric test and it was designed to
destroy a dummy uh re-entry vehicle with
this sizable warhead
uh using enhanced X-rays. And the X-rays
would would have caused this uh uh chain
of events in the target where you would
get this spalation from inside uh the
inside layers of the re-entry vehicle
and it would tear apart the uh the the
re-entry vehicle. Um so this was the
third attempt as I recall maybe even the
fourth uh to test this uh device in the
atmosphere and it was successful. It it
it exploded as planned and there were
two RC 135 uh Cobra Ball airplanes up
taking video of this. One I think
representing Los Alamos, one
representing Lawrence Liverour Lab and
they each of those aircraft filmed this
fireball and what happened uh to the uh
test RV. And as soon as that fireball
erupts, you see this object come
tumbling out of the fireball uh heading
for the uh Pacific Ocean.
Yeah, this video is available. It's open
source and and you see it's really crazy
because Lawrence Livermore, you see the
object tumbling out and then Los Alamos,
you see a white white triangle
superimposing the video.
I thought it was the other way around. I
thought maybe I'm wrong. thought it was
Livermore's that covered up the the the
object and it was Los Alamos and and I
think the warhead was a Los Alamos
design.
Okay.
Uh anyway, the trivia.
No, no, no. That's good correction. But
uh but uh yeah, so you actually see it
this object clearly uh in the in the Los
Alamos video and and what uh what uh
Mongrren reported
that he'd been told directly by Bissell
is that we downed a UFO that was
monitoring closely monitoring that test
and it tumbled into the ocean and that
the Navy picked it up. So, you mentioned
that uh that the video of this test is
has been declassified and was released.
I think it was back in the late 90s. And
um and and also released or declassified
and released were the ship logs cuz in
tests like that, and this was out near
Johnston ATL,
uh the Navy would have a contingent of
ships that would help uh to collect the
debris and the sensors that had been
deployed to uh watch the test. Okay,
they would fall into the ocean, then
they would be picked up. And uh part of
those uh the information in those ships
logs is that they picked up some highly
radioactive debris. One was described as
a black sphere. Another was described as
a green tube
uh that were not part of the instrument
package that they were supposed to pick
up. These were anomalous items floating
in the water that that they tested them
with uh with radioactive detectors and
they had been highly uh uh they were
highly radioactive, meaning they had
been very close to the fireball and they
retrieved those. And then there's also a
log that says the Navy also conducted a
salvage operation. So this lines up
perfectly with what Mgrren was told by
Richard Bissell. I think Malgrren even
more than that was in charge of costing
for the these missile defense systems.
So he was he was in charge of that and I
think he wanted to he was like
frustrated at not being sort of read in
because he had blanket Q clearances. And
so he then as a result of that goes and
visits Loris Lawrence G or Geese um
who's Jeff Bezos's maternal grandfather
and the Albuquerque director of the
atomic energy commission because the
materials get taken from the Marshall
Islands Johnson ATL to uh uh Sandia
National Laboratories and um so Malgrim
actually investigates this on behalf of
the Kennedy administration. So the whole
thing is so fascinating and then I think
a month later Kennedy goes and visits
less Alamos which you know I don't know
if that's a coincidence.
Uh actually uh Kennedy uh this has been
documented by uh Jeff Krookshank. He's
he's amazing research.
He's listed the uh the attendees on that
trip and it was Kennedy and Johnson and
uh the national security adviser I think
George Mc George Mcundy.
It was M Mc Bundy.
Mc Bundy. Yeah. Uh but then also um the
famous general Curtis Lame was was part
of that uh trip and Curtis Lame of
course I think at the time was was the
commander of Wright Patterson uh air
force base. Um so at any event there was
an interesting um uh a very interesting
delegation uh soon after the Cuban
missile crisis does go on this tour of
various u uh nuclear uh uh installations
and facilities out west. Um Mongrren
also made a trip during which as you say
I think he he met with Lawrence Geese or
Gis however you pronounce it and um and
others. Um, so, so here's here's the
other interesting thing though. 5 weeks
before
that bluegill triple prime test, there
was another uh, there was another test.
This one was of a new uh, re-entry
vehicle designed by a company that's now
defunct uh, or been absorbed many times
over called AVCO.
And uh Avco had built a new re-entry
vehicle called the MarkV.
And this too has all been declassified
where uh uh in the test of that new RV,
it is released, you know, close to the
atmosphere and you see it traveling at
very high speed and starting to re-enter
the atmosphere and all of a sudden
behind it you see this bright white
light that catches up to the RV over a
fairly significant distance. it catches
up to the RV and accompanies it further
in its trajectory. And in the official
report uh made to the defense department
about this test, it says right in there,
objects of unknown origin and identity
were tracking or pacing, I forget the
exact words that were used, this uh the
MarkV re-entry vehicle. So, this is a
this is a UFO. This is a UFO that is
closely flying and catching up to a
warhead that's going, I [clears throat]
don't know, 10,000 miles.
What test was this? What was this
called?
Um, you know, uh, Jesse, I don't
remember the name of the test, but it's
easily found. It It's in It was on
September 19th,
uh, 1962.
Wow. And you see the records of
Oh, sure. The video is online.
There's a video and you see it. You see
an unknown, a UFO catching up.
Yes, you see it. Uh, I mean, you don't
you don't see any details, but you see
this this white object, this luminous
object come roaring up, uh, uh, chasing
the chasing the re-entry vehicle.
That's wild. Can Can you send that to
me? I'd love to. Yeah. Yeah,
[clears throat] we we'll link that for
people.
So, uh, so, so, and and it was reported
in the official reports.
Unbelievable. And and so so then so then
let's fast forward like two years and
approximately a little 18 months and
Robert Jacobs is has an assignment out
uh in Big Su, California to film uh this
test of um of an ICBM launched from
Vandenberg in Atlas. And uh and it's got
a dummy warhead on it. And according to
Robert Jacobs and his commanding
officer, Major Mansman, I mean, this is
a well-known story. Um, this re-entry
vehicle is moving at like I forget the
the number 9,000 to 12,000 m an hour.
And you see this according to the
witnesses of this video that you see a
UFO and it is saucershaped and it starts
flying around the re-entry vehicle and
shooting uh some beams at it and that
and that it disabled this uh this test
re-entry vehicle.
And then CIA suits show up and kind of
confiscate the video and um and then
basically Jacobs is erased from the
government. You know, they say that he
never worked at the government. Yeah.
And um yeah, the whole thing's kind of
crazy. And then and then he gets all
these threats. His mailblocks blows up.
Eventually, uh Floren Mansman, his
superior has to admit that actually Bob
Jacobs did work in fact for Vandenberg
and managed, you know, I think 130
people or something.
Yes. His team was quite large.
So now he's being sort of vindicated.
But yeah, it's really wild what he had
to sort of go through. And Lou Alzando
uh says that he has seen the video.
That's correct. Lou says that he had a
comment
and he says he has backups of the video.
And so I would Lou, if you're watching
this, please release that video. Just
release the vid. I mean, the vi that
video would be so effective and
powerful. Do you think it would be like
the sources and methods thing that would
endanger our because I mean you're
talking about 1964,
you know, technology. I think that would
just be a net positive for humanity and
not reveal anything as far as national
security.
There is a uh there is an account that
contests Robert Jacobs account um by uh
by a man with some very good credentials
uh who claims that uh Jacobs was
confused about which date there of this
test and so on and so forth. It's a long
complicated story. Um but uh you know uh
the defense department arrow has uh has
taken the position that uh that Jacobs
was wrong in what he said claims to have
seen. Mhm.
Uh but my point is like if you look back
at what happened in 1962 as documented
by Harold Monggrren and uh and others
and we have the video evidence
that lends a lot of credibility to
Robert Jacob's story. Oh yeah. Because
it's the same phenomena.
It's the same phenomena. I mean, one you
could say is sending X-rays out in a way
that actually if you have a uh you know,
a vehicle referencing the
magneettosphere of the Earth like that's
a lot of people think that's how UFOs
might fly. Just like you know uh aven
cryptochromes like these birds that have
the CR Y4 protein, they use electron
spin to sense where the Earth is and
that helps them navigate home. So they
use kind of quantum biology, quantum
sensing to actually navigate
that theoretically is how you know the
UFOs might sense. And so if you're
messing with the local magneettosphere,
you could see these things sort of
crashing. Whereas I think the uh the
dummy blast, the nuclear dummy blast of
of you know 1964 with with Bob Jacobs
that points a little more towards this
sort of threebody problem like you know
the UFOs are sort of uh you know worried
about like you know the tip of the spear
of our advancements in weaponry. They're
worried about us disturbing you know our
our biosphere and and and taking
ourselves out. Either way, very similar.
Uh,
it's very similar phenomena. And the
point is is that it appears like
routinely
UAP were flying around watching our ICBM
tests and our nuclear warhead tests in
the atmosphere. Well, there's so much
documentation of that. If you just if
anybody actually reads Robert Hastings
book, which is I feel like that half the
reason my show exists is to just tell
people to read that book because that's
like the most, you know, [clears throat]
it's just so canonical and and and
detailed and document. You have these I
don't know. It's I'm a big fan of Joe
Rogan, but it's like sometimes I'm like,
dude, just read that book and you'll
like be a little less confused because
at least you can start with a
foundation. you're not having to ping
off of all these desperate kind of you
know contemporary witnesses just read
that book like I he's like doesn't have
time he's very busy but you know or
Tulsi or any of these people in power
like just read that but that book is so
because it helps you start with a
baseline of like you know like that
would be a huge
that would be like the bottom of the
Jenga block as far as my like
intellectual foundation of this. So, if
you were to pull that, it would be, you
know, I would have to admit it would
really shake my foundation on this whole
this whole topic. Um, but it it's just
so solid. It's so meticulously written
and um, you know, I think uh, if if you
actually read it and you talk to
Hastings, you know, who I've become
friends with,
it's it's it's hard to deny. So,
it is.
Well, well, Jesse, one final thing on
this on this point is that I mean,
imagine this. We we resumed atmospheric
testing in 1962 after the Soviets uh
violated the unofficial moratorum on
atmospheric nuclear tests. So we resume
testing. We're going through this very
very tense obviously this crisis with
the Soviet Union over over missiles in
Cuba. And during this uh during at the
height of this, this UFO is downed by by
a nuclear warhead. Okay. And and on
September 19th, you have this UFO
tracking catching up with a a warhead,
the AFCO warhead going 10,000 12,000
mph. Two years later, you have it the
same thing happened with Robert Jacobs
event in in California. Do you can you
imagine the defense department just
saying, "Oh, well, these UFOs are
tracking our shit." Yeah.
Uh and but we don't we're not concerned
about that.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
I mean, it's inconceivable. They would
have been they would have been crapping
in their pants.
Of course. Yeah. And there's nothing
else that could I mean, do you think
that the Soviets at that time had an
ability across the world to have a a
spaceship that could accelerate faster
than an incoming RV and and and catch up
to it and monitor it? No.
And in the case of Bob Salis, you know,
Malmstrom 1967 literally shut down our
missile silo. Like no, no, that's
obviously not the
If you can shut down our ICBMs, I mean
game set match, you win the war.
That's the that is the scariest thing
that you can imagine for the National
Command Authority.
No, the So the Soviets would have won
the war. If you had that ability to do
that in a repeatable, predictable way
technologically, that would be that
would be it.
So anyone who thinks that the United
States government wouldn't have been
paying the closest possible attention to
the UFO phenomena all these years, it's
it's nuts. It's inconceivable to me. I
fully agree with you. Um, on that note,
how do we get better whistleblower
protections? You know, in 2023
time frame, we had this Gallagher
amendment uh to the National Defense
Authorization Act, specifically to the
Schumer amendment and uh, you know, the
UAP disclosure, you know, initiative as
part of the the yearly defense budget.
And everybody thought after we got the
Gallagher amendment, you know, you'd
have, you know, this sort of breaking
down the dam of of people coming out and
and and speaking about the UFO issue. Uh
why do you think that hasn't been
effective? And do you think we end up
with stronger whistleblower protections
so people can actually come out? Well,
this too is uh is a kind of um is a kind
of uh catch 22. you know, we need
whistleblowers,
you know, more direct sources with
direct involvement to come forward. I
hear this constantly from from folks on
the hill both before I uh retired and
since. Um and yet whistleblowers don't
want to come forward because they're
afraid of retribution and retaliation
and and so then you say, "Well, we need
better whistleblower protections." But
to get whistleblower protections,
uh, you have to convince people in
Congress who, uh, who are worried about
the what is the right balance of
whistleblower protections versus, uh,
versus, uh, you know, good order and
discipline and having people uh, having
people follow uh, follow orders and stay
in their place in the bureaucracy and so
on. The whole degree of general
whistleblower protections is is is
complex. Uh I don't pretend to
understand the politics of it, but I
know enough to know that it is a
complicated issue. And if you come
forward and say, "I need special
protections for a special limited class
of people." Uh then everyone else who
wants to protect uh whistleblowers says,
"Oh, why should I give you special
protections for one small class of
people? We need to expand protections
for everybody." And then but then you
have uh those who are dubious about
enhanced whistleblower protections uh
saying well we're not going to do that.
So do you have a solution to this?
Um well uh a solution is a little bit
hard to come by. Uh but I think that we
just have to hope for one of two things.
either the executive branch decides it's
going to pursue disclosure or B we get
more people to uh gird their loins and
and decide that uh that it's just
something that has to be done. They
don't have to go public. Um my view
the problem with that is it ends up in
this liinal space of like it does
you're sort of repeating their account
and you have to do it in that really
high level like I'm not convinced if
somebody went on one of these
whistleblowers just went on Rogan like
tomorrow and just talked about what they
know and they really tried to protect
the you know national trade secret side
of this but just was it was really clear
that you know sort of Bob Lazard 2.0
know, but without the details that, you
know, make it, you know, easy to sort
of, you know, uh uh detract from from
the testimony, I think that would a get
tons and tons of attention and b you'd
have sort of this like people's champion
immunity and you'd have a president and
Trump and his whole cabinet that has
promised, you know, transparency. Maybe
they don't quite understand the UFO
issue. Maybe it's not a priority,
but seeing that person after, you know,
going so being so public getting
persecuted, I I don't know. I think
that's that feels like that would be a
very tall order.
Jesse, I'm with you. I think that going
public can really bring some protections
for you. Now, you know, Dave Grush might
say, you know, what about me? Uh cuz
they went after him even when he went
public as a result of him going public.
So, I I get it. Um, it's a it's a
complex,
but I think he felt
calculation.
I think he feels safer postgoing public
than pre the the scariest period is when
they they probably have intel that
you're going to go public and you
haven't gone public yet,
right?
But once you've gone public, it's it's
pretty hard to, you know, completely
destroy somebody's life. I mean, that's
Jesse. I will also say,
especially in the digital age, people
are waking up and they can trace things
better. And I think they're sniffing out
BS to be honest just on on levels that
you know it's like you had the whole
Epste the Epstein thing went on for so
long and other things like it and I
don't see things like that quite working
today. I mean the things that do work
today are like you know mass
surveillance and just like super quiet
stuff but like
really going after individuals and
trying to blackmail like that stuff's
it's it's I don't think that's super
effective on a go forward basis. I tend
to agree with you. Um I and you know the
other thing is is that um
the people in the people who are close
to people who we want to come forward
you know the the Hal Putoffs, Eric
Davis, Dave Grush, Lou Alzando, Chris
Melon and so on. you know, they all tell
us that they know people
who whose whose preference would be to
be able to tell the truth about this.
Um, but they what they report is that
these sources are afraid of uh not, you
know, losing their jobs, losing their
clearances, which effectively ends their
career in national security, but they
also are dreadfully worried about being
prosecuted. M
and you know uh and but but my view
about that is that you know I just don't
believe that that it would happen. First
of all
I don't either. There's a young lawyer
named uh Dylan Guthrie who's got a piece
uh that's come out in um in Harvard Law
Review I believe and in a in a small
section of his uh of his lengthy u
article
he talks about uh the fact that he has
done at least some investigating
and he has found so far that there is
not a single instance that he's come
across where uh a person got indicted
and prosecuted or even indicted I think
uh for having revealed information in an
appropriately secure manner with
Congress. Okay. Uh this isn't about
going public but you know if you contact
Congress and behind closed doors you
convey to them information that uh was
not yet shared or shared in full with
Congress by the executive branch. The
government has never uh prosecuted uh a
case like that and and because it gets
into very murky constitutional issues
about what are the rights and privileges
of the executive branch versus the uh
legislative branch. Right? Okay.
Moreover, imagine this. Imagine if a
whistleblower uh a source comes to the
Senate Intelligence Committee and says,
"Here's what I know." and lays it all
out. Uh, and the government then says,
the executive branch says, "You
shouldn't, it's against it's against our
rules for you to have said that to
Congress. We're going to indict you and
prosecute you." Now, imagine that,
right? So, something that for 80 years
the government has denied the existence
of.
Yeah. Right.
Right. and and Congress has passed laws
requiring that it be kept fully informed
of any s anything anything of
significance for national security. So
the executive branch has violated the
law right that Congress passed and the
president signed. Imagine them coming
forward and said, "Yeah, we didn't tell
Congress about this, but we're going to
prosecute you for telling Congress."
Yeah. You put you put them in a bind.
Good luck.
Yeah. Well, they Yeah. They have to
admit that they that they have knowledge
of this stuff. and and and the hypocrisy
of such a step like that, I think
Congress would be I personally think
they would be outraged totally and and
would not abide for abide it. And so I I
actually I actually think that the that
the uh the fear of prosecution
is is is unfounded. Now, it's easy for
me to say I'm not uh the person whose
livelihood and uh and security depends
on uh you know is at stake here. So, I'm
I'm certainly uh I'm certainly uh um uh
understanding if people listening to
this would say, "Yeah, fine for you to
say, but uh but I'm not I'm not taking
the chance." But I really think that uh
that it's something that that we have to
we have to resolve. We have to figure
out a way around this catch 22. We
definitely do. A lot of this stuff
seemed to come out around, you know, you
have the Church Committee of 1975
and you know, this is I think it was a
senator from Idaho, Frank Church, and he
looked into all sorts of malfeasants on
the part of the intelligence community
uh stemming from, you know, Watergate,
obviously rumors of like the, you know,
Warren Commission around JFK
assassination being totally compromised.
I believe it was.
Um, but also other revelations of, you
know, MK Ultra and that sort of thing.
Do you think any of that dovetales with
this kind of UAP issue, especially maybe
with respect to MK Ultra where we know
now that they were doing kind of
experiments around telepathy? Like you
had this guy Andre Puharic who was doing
experiments with, you know, telepathic
kids.
Yeah.
And is there a connection? Because when
people claim to be abducted, they seem
to communicate telepathically with the
alien beings.
Yeah.
Uh Jesse, I think it's a great question
and it's something that I am really
intrigued by because you know uh in the
1950s
from the early 50s I believe I'm not a
I'm not a serious student of this yet.
I'm certainly trying to read more and
more about it. But from the 50s on up
through some say it never went away even
after uh the the church committee. Um
uh you know about they were looking into
mind control
um uh you know uh remote viewing uh you
know clairvoyance all all of that. Uh
and and and that that overlay is in time
with us learning that enc people who
encounter
uh non-human intelligence,
they're being communicated with
telepathically. And so just
coincidentally
uh coincidentally the United States
government all of a sudden decides to
start investigating these same uh you
know psychic uh powers and psychic
issues. Uh, you know, I it looks that
that's looks very suspicious to me. Like
one of the main reasons I suspect that
we were studying that stuff and had
those programs was because of what we
were learning about UFOs and
extraterrestrials.
Um, admittedly, we had soldiers in the
Korean War who were subjected to mind
control stuff, you know, by the North
Koreans and the Russians. Uh so that you
know that certainly was was a stimulus
right that I that I can't discount and I
don't want to discount
but uh but the rest of it uh is as I
think you're suggesting is is is very
suspicious in terms of the uh the
overlay with uh with the UFO problem. I
would also like to mention I recently
was told about the these things called
the telepathy tapes which is is getting
uh a lot of attention now and I've I've
listened to you know a dozen of them and
uh for those who um who aren't familiar
with this um these are um are are
podcasts I guess sessions uh lengthy
ones a whole series of them about uh
caregivers uh um and um and and uh
neuroscientists and psychologists who
are working with non-speaking
autistic people
um children as well as as adults as
they've as they've grown up. And these
these people
uh it seems pretty clear have some
mental telepathy capabilities
and they they connect with each other
across vast distances. The experiments
need to be done more rigorously and with
you know double blind experimentation
protocols. But if you just listen to the
tapes, it's overwhelmingly obvious to a
person who's not dogmatic that there's
something going on. Yeah.
And that's not explained by modern
scientific paradigm.
Yeah.
Yeah. That's that's correct. Um um now
you know you mentioned earlier uh how
Putoff's uh work on instantaneous
communications and and so so you know
Hal is searching for a physics
explanation for for telepathy
um and probably
leading into remote viewing and and so
forth. Um so what what we have is the is
the fact of uh telepathy happening
between human beings and non-human
extraterrestrials. We seem to have
communication among just humans uh among
autistic uh non-speaking uh people. Um
and then you have a physics explanation
that uh that Hal PutF and others are
working on which involve uh so-called
highly technical terms scalar and vector
potentials.
Um,
okay. So, the only thing that's kind of
missing here is like can the human brain
mimic what Hal is talking about? And so,
is the human brain
wired in such a way, architected in such
a way that it uh that it can uh function
in these uh quantum mechanical ways. And
in terms of uh of modern um extended
electronamics
um and if and there are some hints at
least out there in the medical
profession at least as a layman I I
think I'm seeing that that suggests that
uh that this is possibly the case.
Yeah. Well, I mean you have it's
converging on an answer. We don't have
an answer but it's like okay so you have
Roger Penrose who's a very wellrespected
physicist you know
you know worked on black holes and you
know collaborated with Stephen Hawking
Nobel Prize winner and he you know was
sort of laughed out of the room because
you can't talk about consciousness in
those circles but he has this very
interesting theory called orchestrated
objective reduction
which you know involves a quantum
biological process where we collapse
Schroinger's wave function and you could
say you could dismiss that out hand, you
know, whatever. But we know that there
are other quantum biological processes
you can now prove. I mentioned the thing
of birds navigating via the
magneettosphere of the earth with
electron spin and the specific aven
cryptochrome protein. But there are
other examples. There's uh you know
enzyme creation, there's quantum
tunneling uh around DNA and so and uh uh
I believe photosynthesis we now think is
involves quantum biological processes.
So the idea that the you know the body
which is warm, wet and noisy is not um
you know can't allow for quantum
coherence is is going out the window.
So then you have to open up this idea of
maybe the Penrose model is right. And
then at the same time you have this idea
that the government studied non-local
consciousness modalities for decades and
this idea the idea that you know where
does thought even come from? It's
clearly not being locally produced. When
you're daydreaming you're not
constructing your thoughts actively. it
seems like you're receiving them from
elsewhere. And then you have all the
remote viewing data that Jessica UTS,
who is the president of the American
Statistical Society, reviewed for the
CIA saying that, you know, this is
extremely replicable, like well beyond
like other scientific fields as far as
the P values, you know, the
probabilities that you you'd get hits on
these sort of remote viewing targets.
And so that seems like a you know
consciousness is this sort of really
non-local thing which again comports
with quantum entanglement and the
quantum stuff. Um so I don't think it's
so crazy to say that you have
phenomenologically all this evidence
with remote viewing and the telepathy
tapes even though you know in the
telepathy tapes you know in certain it's
anecdotal but I think it's I think it's
pretty overwhelming. And then in the in
the CIA case, it's actually
statistically relevant with Jessica UT
who's a total good faith actor and you
know she seems very very earnest.
Um and then and then meanwhile you have
this kind of burgeoning field of quantum
biology. And so I think we'll probably
discover something around that somewhat
soon. And I've spoken to Hal Putoff
about this. Um, you know, do do we have
extended electronamical models that
might, you know, um, line up with
consciousness? And he pointed me towards
uh the work of Cleave Baxter who, uh,
you know, it talks about like plant
communication and um, and so yeah, I I
think he's, you know, interested in in
this as well. Is there sort of some sort
of physicalist model of where we can
eventually decode carrier you know a
carrier of thought itself because I mean
another example there's there anecdotal
examples of you have like Lucille Ball
who uh had a filling in her tooth. This
is in the telepathy tapes and she's
driving on some overpass and she starts
to hear the radio in her head
and this is a well-known this is
scientifically proven as well. called
bone induction where you have you you
have metal in the mouth could you know
pick up RF signals and you can you know
all of a sudden hear things
and I think Andre Puridge had a similar
case where it was like somebody working
in a you know a metal mill or whatever
uh you know metallic or got in his teeth
and you know all of a sudden he was he
was being you know he's transmitting
signals from elsewhere so
I think there's so much to discover you
know in in in this area and it's
probably not traditional
radio frequency because if you can if if
the consciousness is happening you know
non-locally if you are in a Faraday
chamber you shouldn't be able to think
given that right because that's cutting
out all RF signals um so like yeah
presumably it's something else and maybe
it is this extended electronamical model
that you know might explain thought who
knows I mean we're it's super
the ability to project thought you know
to transmit MIT them uh out of your own
head and into somebody else's head, you
know, and for them to be able to
perceive it, receive and perceive it uh
is um you know, I mean something
something uh there has to be a physics
explanation uh for how
um non-human intelligence um uh
communicates with the humans that they
encounter uh telepathically.
Um I mean it I believe it happens and
there has to be a way to figure out how
um how that happens.
Yeah. But do you have any hope for you
know if this is so beneficial to
humanity which I think both of us think
it is if we let this stuff out you know
uh do do you have any hope for the
president uh disclosing this and and why
hasn't you know Trump already disclosed
this? Because you have Donald Trump Jr.
interviewing Ross Colthart on the eve of
his breaking of the Jake Barber story.
Um, so like what you know clearly like
there's there's connectivity of there's
people in the Trump admin who are very
aware of this issue. I think Tim Waltz
has you know spoken about David Grush
publicly and his revelations and like is
you know is very interested and I think
Tulsi is very interested. She said, you
know, she wants UAP transparency, you
know, and and I've I've had a brief
conversation with her uh around this
topic as well. She seems very she seems
to know it's real and that she, you
know, she wants to like put this stuff
out, but but it also feels like with a
lot of these people, they have so many
other priorities. And so, yeah, what do
you think happens? Uh I I I can't even
hazard a guess uh um uh Jesse because I
I don't have any connections uh into
those circles and uh I don't know what
uh what's being said um [snorts] you
know uh privately. I don't have I don't
have any any idea. So I'm uh I'm
certainly hopeful uh but um but I I have
no insight. I'm sorry to say.
No, it's okay. Well, any other things
you want to touch on or I am interested
in um in uh in talking about what what
the uh the mindset might have been for
the atomic energy commission and the
intelligence community and the defense
department.
Can I can I tee you off and ask a quick
question on that? Okay.
So, why do you think this was made
secret in the first place? It's just,
you know, it should be kind of
ontological truth, right? It should be
basic kind of, you know, an
understanding of, you know, whether
we're alone in the universe should not
be classified, right?
Yeah, that's uh that's that's a really
good point. Uh but you know what what
I've thought about that to the extent
I've thought about it uh Jesse is um is
I think like
right after the war the leadership in
the country thinking back on the events
of the previous couple of decades and
probably felt that the that we were just
exhausted. I mean, we'd been through two
world wars,
uh, this longlasting depression. We were
entering into, uh, we were already into
a cold war with a with a communist um,
uh, regime in uh, in in in Russia. Um
and um and here we were, you know,
experiencing
uh you know, having to deal with the
reality of uh of UFOs and
extraterrestrial life and the like. And
I can just so imagine the view uh that
uh that this would be another
cataclysmic shock to to the to society
and the world order and the world's
religions. Uh we were barely uh you know
a decade removed from Orson Wells uh War
of the Worlds uh um uh event. I think
that was in 1938. And
and that literally touched off mass
hysteria. It was this reading of HG
Wells's War of the Worlds by Orson
Wells, famous aura director.
And people went nuts until they realized
it was not real.
Well, that's right. But it but it was uh
it was a lesson, right? that uh that the
leadership of the country could could
take and and uh and say uh you know uh
this can't be a good idea to let to let
people know about this. Um and um I
guess I can also imagine uh that um uh
that you know we wanted to figure out we
wanted to figure out what it was all
about before we would even ever consider
uh letting letting this out. You know,
when when uh when Roswell allegedly
happened, it took it took very little
time for Washington to react like, you
know, what was it? Jesse Marcel or
whoever was the was the uh the press
person down at Roswell.
Marcel was the um Air Force intelligence
officer. Walter Hot, I believe, was Hot
was the public relations public
relations. Colonel Blanchard was kind of
dealing with with hot and then who was
the was it Remy was the guy from
General Remy was from Fort Worth.
Yeah, Fort Worth.
And he was like, "Guys, shut up. You
know, don't put this out." Well, uh, and
and you know, it didn't take long, like
word went out, uh, that they had made
this announcement back to Washington,
and the order to shut the hell up and,
uh, bottle this up
came came pretty quick, you know. Uh,
I've always been impressed by that. it
uh it it sort of belies the the uh the
the lethargy of uh of the bureaucracy,
you know,
um almost as if uh uh there had been
some,
you know, longterm awareness and a
decision already made in Washington like
this is bad news and so wherever it pops
up, uh you got to you got to react to it
pretty quickly. And Roswell was the site
of the only American nuclear stockpile
at the time.
That's right. And and bomber force.
And bomber force under Yeah. 509th
bomber atomic bomber squad.
Yeah, that that's right. Um so uh so I
certainly think that uh that that you
know that there that there was uh a
reason for this immediate reaction. But
Jesse, um, on a sustained basis,
you know, the, uh, the executive branch,
if if if people like us are correct,
that that they really have known uh, and
studied carefully this to the best of
their ability uh, within bureaucratic
constraints and budget constraints and
so on that they have accumulated uh, a
lot of information about this uh, over
the decades. Um
and if as some believe you know if you
look at well if you just look at alleged
UAP performance uh there's some mighty
interesting technology involved there
and if the government knows about that
but has chosen to keep it from being
applied to solve you know the pressing
needs of the American people and indeed
society the world over, you know, for um
travel, aerospace travel, for energy,
um and who knows what else. um you know
why would why would the government have
decided and and and frankly this is one
of the criticisms of of this view
by skeptics is look if the military
could fly
you know craft around like UFOs do you
think they would have squirreled it away
where so so what if they have like 12 of
them or something we have thousands of
F-35s and F-15s and F-16s why wouldn't
we have applied this techn technology to
our entire military force. You know, why
are we still um powering uh armored
vehicles with uh with with uh uh diesel
fuel and gasoline if we had the ability
to take electrical power right from the
physical vacuum?
Why why haven't we used the hydrogen
bomb yet, you know? Um well you know
yeah I mean I think the hydrogen bomb
predated our mastery any mastery of this
technology but but sure like
yeah I'm just saying like we have all we
have all sorts of ace in the hole that
we haven't allowed to be shown to the
public for for various
well you know but but the public knows
about it and we've applied it to our
forces in a in a in a in an observable
informed way like we we everybody knows
we've invested in in uh hundreds of
ICBMs and and and
and seabbased ballistic missiles and so
on.
Um so why would you limit this
technologies reach if we actually had
analyzed it and and reverse engineered
any of it?
And and that's a it's a legitimate and
and difficult question to answer. Um I
don't have an answer but my own
speculation is that I can think of a
reason why the government might have
take might take that position and and
the answer would be Allah our previous
discussions about Nicola Tesla TT Brown
and lots of others is what if the
government discovered that it's not that
hard after all
to to access the physical vacuum and
extract energy from it. And what if
Yeah, that energy is extremely potent
and can be weaponized.
Sure.
And and what if it's not that hard to do
that and in fact doesn't even require
mammoth engineering enterprises like our
nuclear establishment uh requires. Um so
that you know a Kim Jong-un could be
doing this in some warehouse someplace,
right? That'd be disastrous. And and I
would and if that were the case, I would
hope that there's some sort of strategy,
strategic thinking around how to let
some of this stuff partially out or in a
blackboxed way or in a way that, you
know, the western forces control or
whatever. And
uh I would fully comply with that cuz I
don't want, you know, Kim Jong-un to
have
to have a beam weapon vaporizing. might
be where I deviate with UFO circles is
like I don't want dictators that want
would literally if they had the
capabilities to destroy the US by
hitting a button they would and so yeah
or use that as
or some doomsday cult or something
yeah or you trade soul for San Francisco
with that you know if you're talking
about the Kim Jong-un thing so yeah I uh
or yeah some doomsday cult or you know
accelerationist want you want to bring
bring about you know some esqueological
you know apotheiois I don't know. Um, so
so yeah, no, I'm I'm I'm with that. Um,
so anyway, I mean, this is this is one
possible uh possible explanation that
that I've thought of where I could
reconcile with observable facts. Um, of
course, uh, once again, I want to stress
because, uh, I'm sure my friends, uh,
Hal Putoff and Eric Davis and others,
uh, uh, whoever whoever watch this will,
uh, will be upset with me for even
suggesting this because because they
don't think that it's, uh, or they say
they don't think that this is possible.
Um uh but uh what if it is, you know, um
then the the government uh the
government but but but you know my
problem with this Jesse is that even if
they've got good reasons for doing what
they did, in other words, if their if
their intentions were noble.
Yeah.
Um I just don't see that you can lock
out
the United States Congress. I mean,
look, I came from Congress. I'm a career
there. I'm an institutionalist.
Uh Congress under our mode of government
has to be involved in managing this, in
oversight of this, in resourcing it, and
balancing uh interests and uh concerns.
Uh so you know look uh you know you
don't have to reveal all this publicly
but you sure have to at least bring
Congress in as a partner. And that's
been my that's been my objective in this
whole in this whole thing. I mean my
primary objective is to get this under
uh a proper sort of constitutional
framework. Um,
so, um, cool. That's how I would answer
your question.
Yeah. Well, Kirk McConnell, it's an
honor to have you on. I really
appreciate your time. This is a blast
and uh, yeah, would love to would love
to have you back at some point and uh,
yeah, thank you for everything you're
doing and I hope you are uh, enjoying
your time out of government.
Well, thank you very much. I I do miss
it, but uh, but I also don't miss it if
you know what I mean.
I know exactly what you mean. Yeah.
All right, man. Thanks so much. Thank
you.
It's a real honor to
Oh, it's an honor to have on your show.
I'm underqualified to interview you. So,
thank you.
Oh, [laughter]
awesome.
What is up, Alchemist? If you're
interested in joining group calls with
me and accessing exclusive,
never-beforeseen episodes of American
Alchemy, like my walk and talk with
Danny Shehan on who exactly killed JFK,
or a remote viewing debate between Hal
Putoff and Eric Weinstein, then please
join our [__] community today. We've been
sitting on a ton of unreleased footage
that we will now be releasing on our new
WOB. I also hosted a discussion between
the infamous Jack Sarati and former
American Alchemist Science Bob Maguire.
Head over to wop.com/jesse.
Michaels with no a to become a member
today.